When everything falls apart
and when everything
around you is chaotic,
the one thing you have
is your relationship with Jehovah.
My name is Baite Michael Dugbe.
I was born in Monrovia, Liberia in 1980.
Growing up in Monrovia
before the war was an amazing time.
I had wonderful parents.
We grew up in a nice house,
and we went to a great school.
When I was nine years old,
everything changed overnight.
There were reports of rebels
trying to take over the government.
Those reports alone
made people panic.
Businesses started to close down.
Services were shut down
—the lights, the power, the water—
everything stopped.
The next few years were really unstable.
In 1996, things again fell apart completely.
It was all-out war.
This time, the rebels were in the city.
There was a lot of looting going on.
There was a lot of shooting.
The rebels—they were known for torture
if people would not agree to fight with them.
In a situation like that,
there’s a lot of fear;
there’s a lot of panic.
And when your fear level rises,
the best way to deal with it is prayer
—prayer to Jehovah,
asking him specifically for direction
on what to do next.
As the fighting escalated
and it got closer to where we lived,
it was no longer safe.
We had to flee,
and we ended up at the branch office.
The brothers were very loving;
they took really good care of us.
Our spiritual activities
—they made sure we kept up with that.
Looking back,
I’m very grateful to have survived.
Two things helped us get through.
Number one:
our relationship with Jehovah.
That’s the only thing that keeps you stable.
But then, also, we were able to survive
because of the help
from the brothers and sisters.
Those moments of trial
—that’s when you really realize
how much you need the brotherhood.
I have a lot of joy
in my assignment at Bethel
in Audio/Video Services.
I love the brothers and sisters
that I work with.
It’s all thanks to Jehovah
that I am alive and that I get
to serve him every day.